I should have known it was too good to be true when I found a brand new smartphone, still in its packaging, smack in the middle of my hotel room bed when I checked in. I mean, I assumed it was a mistake, that someone had left it behind. Yeah, it was strange that the phone would be sitting on top of a freshly-made hotel bed, which the housekeeping staff had obviously cleaned up since the last guest had checked out. I wondered why they hadn't turned in the item to the hotel's lost and found, or if they were dishonest, taken it home and kept it. 

Moments after I deposited my luggage on the floor, I took a closer look at the phone and noticed that there was small piece of card stock, about the size of a business card, tucked partially under the smartphone box. I picked up the card and examined it. In the center of it, in typewritten letters, was my name. The card was otherwise blank. I wondered if the hotel had left this phone for me as a mistake, if someone had asked the hotel staff to leave it in the room of another guest and there had been a mixup. Then a small thrill leapt through me: could one of the conference organizers have left this for me as a thank-you gift for agreeing to give a presentation? Almost as quickly as the thought entered my mind I dismissed it as ridiculous; I had never heard of such a practice at any conference. I called the hotel front desk (using the room's phone), and told the lady on the other end about the unopened mobile phone left on my bed.

"I'm sorry, sir, what did you say is on your bed?"

"There's an unopened smartphone. I'm surprised the cleaning staff left it here."

"One moment, sir..." From the other end of the line I heard the clicking of a computer keyboard. "Sir, I don't see any notes about anyone reporting a lost cell phone, or any notes from the housekeeping staff about a phone that was left in any rooms."

"Should I bring it down to the lobby in case someone comes looking for it?"

More typing from the other end of the line. "Sir, anything in your room at check-in comes compliments of the hotel. No need to bring anything down here. Thank you for checking." Click. The line went dead. 

I thought about calling back, but something made me hesitate. Why had there been a card with my name printed on it, directly beneath the phone? There must have been a reason. Maybe the phone really was intended for me. It could have been some sort of surprise someone planned. I wasn't sure who would have done that, other than the conference organizers, or maybe my employer. Neither seemed like a particularly likely explanation, though. 

I held up the box and looked at it more closely. The picture of the phone printed on the box showed a typical touch screen device, though it was not a model I recognized. In hindsight, I realize I should have been more suspicious; I follow a lot of technology blogs, and I usually hear about most phone models before they come on the market. The box had the word "Sidrat" printed directly above the picture of the phone. What an unfortunate name! It sounded like a name for an animated rodent. At first I assumed it was the name of the phone model, but as I looked at the box and noticed the lack of any other text, I wondered if it were the name of the manufacturer. 

I stared at the box and contemplated whether or not to take it down to the hotel front desk anyway. Finally I came to a decision. I had to try out this phone. It seemed to have been left for me, right? Maybe this was a prototype that the conference organizers or my employer gave me to try out, so that I could write up a preview of it, or work it into my conference presentation. I was dying to know what it was like, and how it differed from the other models I'd seen recently. I tore off the shrink wrap, and pulled the lid off the box.

Inside was a typical glass brick style phone, surrounded by cardboard packaging. That's all there was inside. I lifted the phone out of the box, expecting to find a small manual, or maybe some accessories, beneath it. Nothing. Not even a power cord. Just the phone. How odd. This must be some sort of prototype. Why in the world wouldn't it have a power cord, though? How long would the batteries last before it needed a recharge? It made no sense to me. I turned the phone over in my hand, examining every surface. I only saw one button on it, at the very bottom of the front surface. After turning it over several times to make sure there were no other controls, I tapped the sole button. The screen lit up immediately, and on the display a few icons appeared. I tapped one that looked like a camera. 

A flash of light blinded me temporarily. After blinking a few times, I looked down at the phone to see the photo I had just taken, but the screen displayed two buttons: "Save" and "Discard." I tapped "Save," and a text field appeared with the prompt, "Enter message." I guess I had to give the photo a caption. I entered "My hotel room." Then I was back on the home screen again, with all the icons. Did this piece of junk app just crash? I hoped this was indeed a prototype, otherwise it was a major letdown. Here I had gotten all excited about a mysterious new phone left for me in my hotel room. 

Out of curiosity I tapped an icon with a tee on it, wondering what kind of app would open. A drawing of a tree appeared in the background of the screen, with a bunch of colored lines superimposed on top of the tree branches. I tapped a tree branch labeled "Down-the-Hall." 

I felt my stomach jump, like I was going down a roller coaster. OK, I felt a little lame, did I really need to get so excited about trying a new app that I had stomach jitters? The app hadn't done anything special, the only difference I could see was that the Down-the-Hall tree branch was glowing slightly. This was getting pretty dumb. It was time to put away this worthless glass brick and practice my conference presentation, or maybe run up a tab at the hotel bar.

I was about to drop the phone onto the bed when it started ringing. Uh...who would be calling this brand new phone? I didn't even know its number. I tapped a button to ignore the call and dropped the phone onto the bed. A moment later, it started ringing again. I picked it back up and looked at the number. It was called ID blocked. Great. I tapped the ignore button again. The ringing stopped, but a second later it started again. I finally gave in and answered the damn thing.

"Who is this?" I demanded.

The reply came back a notch or two above a whisper, and had a scratchy, metallic quality, as if the sound were being degraded by electrical distortion from traveling halfway around the world across copper wires. "You don't know what you have with this phone..." The words trailed off in a sigh as if the speaker had run out of breath.

"Did you leave this for me? Who are you?"

"Learn to use the phone. There is a clue by the ice machine..."

"What? Are you in this hotel, too?"

"Look by the ice machine..."

I huffed into the phone, but decided to check the ice machine anyway. What harm could that do? Creepy as this voice was, I was in a nice hotel; it wasn't as though anything terrible would happen to me here. I stepped out into the hall and followed the signs to the ice machine at the far end. When I reached the alcove with the machine, I told the phone, "OK, I'm here, what am I supposed to do?"

"There is a clue under the ice machine. Pick it up and read it."

I looked down and noticed another business card-size piece of paper sticking out from under the machine. I picked it up and read the message printed on it: "Capture this moment so you can visit it later."

"What's this supposed to mean?" I asked the phone. "I'm supposed to photograph an ice machine?"

"Photograph? The device doesn't photograph..."

"Yeah, I noticed the camera app seems to crash a lot."

"The device captures a moment in time. Not a photograph..."

"Look, these metaphors about capturing memories with photographs are all very well and good, but I need to go practice for my conference presentation, so if you'll excuse me--"

"Capture the moment...press the button...trust me..."

Fine. I was still somewhat curious about this weird phone and the weird person on the other end of the line, so I figured as may as well see this through. I went back to the phone's home screen and tapped the camera icon. The flash went off, and I tapped the "Save" button, then entered the caption "Ice machine."

"Good..." said the voice. How did this person know I had used the camera? Did he have remote access to my phone somehow? "Now, look at the tree..."

I opened the tree app again. 

"Look at the circles on the tree branch..."

I looked at it more closely. The last circle at the end of the branch I had tapped earlier, "Down-the-Hall," had the word "Choice" next to it. From there, another side branch split off, with more circles along it. The circle before "Choice" on the Down-the-Hall branch had the label "Ice machine." The circle before that one had the label "The Tree App," and the first circle was named "My hotel room." OK, I think I was starting to see a pattern here...sort of.

"You have a choice..." the voice continued. "Revisit a moment you captured, or switch branches...choose from the tree..."

I tapped on the tree.